CS 

 Machine learning  

Droughts, typically caused by the deficiencies of precipitation and soil moisture, affect water resources and agriculture. As soil moisture is of key importance in understanding the interaction between the atmosphere and Earth's surface, it can be used to monitor droughts. In this study, a High resolution Soil Moisture Drought Index (HSMDI) was proposed and evaluated for meteorological, agricultural, and hydrological droughts. HSMDI was developed using the 1 km downscaled soil moisture data produced from the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer on the Earth Observing System (AMSR-E) from 2003 to 2011 (March to November) over the Korean peninsula. Seven products from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) and Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) satellite sensors were used to downscale AMSR-E soil moisture based on random forest machine learning. The downscaled 1 km soil moisture was correlated well with both in situ and AMSR-E soil moisture with the mean coefficient of determination (R-2) of 0.29 and 0.59, respectively. The Standardized Precipitation Index (SPI) with time scales from I to 12 months, crop yields (for sesame, highland radish, and highland napa cabbage) and streamflow data were used to validate HSMDI for various types of droughts. The results showed that HSMDI depicted meteorological drought well, especially during the dry season, with a similar pattern with the 3-month SPI. However, the performance fluctuated a bit during the wet season possibly due to the limited availability of optical sensor data and heterogeneous land covers around the stations. HSMDI also showed high correlation with crop yield data, in particular the highland radish and napa cabbage cultivated in non-irrigated regions with a mean R-2 of 0.77. However, HSMDI did not monitor streamflow well for hydrological drought presenting a various range of correlations with streamflow data (from 0.03 to 0.83). (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.