CS 

 Relational databases  

Ethnopharmacological relevance: Scutellariae radix (Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi) and Coptidis rhizoma (Coptis chinensis Franch), known as traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), have been widely used with the effects of suppressing fever, dispelling dampness, purging fire and removing toxicosis. Owing to their unimaginable complexity, it is difficult to understand their pharmacokinetic properties in detail. The aim of this study was to develop an optimal proteomics approach to analyze the protein profiling related with ADME/Tox in rat liver treated with S. radix and C rhizoma as well as their compatibility. Materials and methods: Male rats were respectively administered the extracts of S. radix, C rhizoma and their mixture for 7 days, and their liver tissue samples were prepared for the comparative proteomic analysis. The significantly differentially expressed proteins between the experimental groups and the control group were found and identified by 2-DE and MALDI-TOF-MS analyses. To validate the proteomic analysis results, glutathion peroxidase, catalase and betaine homocysteine methyl transferase were selected and confirmed by western blotting. Results: Seventy eight significantly differentially expressed proteins between the experimental groups and the control group were found and identified. By querying the relational databases, the identified differentially expressed proteins were summarized and classified into three groups, phase I drug metabolic enzymes, phase II drug metabolic enzymes and the rest proteins which mainly involve in energy metabolism, signal transduction and cytoskeleton. These proteins involved in ADME/Tox may be the targets for metabolic studies or markers for toxicity. Conclusions: Our findings indicated S. radix and C rhizoma as well as their compatibility can assuredly influence the expression of the proteins in rat liver. After administration, the majority of these expressions presented a downward trend, which may be closely related to the pharmacological properties of the medicine. The method in this study may open up a new road for the complementary tests for ADME/Tax properties of S. radix and C rhizoma as well as their compatibility. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.