CS 

 Image processing  

In fish reproduction, previous information of ovary oocyte distribution is necessary, when oocytes quantitative estimates are required to estimate batch or annual fecundity. Heterogeneous oocyte distribution requires a standardized sampling protocol to prevent bias in estimates, whereas homogeneous distribution, allows sampling of any portion of gonads with no risk of bias. We studied gonad oocyte distribution patterns in the hogfish Lachnolaimus maximus population from Southern Gulf of Mexico. For this, 23 mature females were selected from a total of 47 individuals exhibiting visible oocytes in the ovaries. These females were classified by reproductive phase and sub -phase (early developing -ED, developing -D, spawning capable -SC and actively spawning -AS). Six histological sections were taken from the anterior, middle and posterior regions of the left and right ovary lobes of each individual. Digital image processing (AxioVision and Image ProPlus programs) was used to estimate oocyte density per unit area, and for different development stages. Contingency tables were used to analyze oocyte distribution frequencies between the regions of each lobe, and between the lobes of each ovary. This was supported with a Pearson's chi 2 test for goodness -of -fit and a replicated G test to confirm distribution heterogeneity. Oocyte stage distribution was homogeneous in almost all 23 females regardless of the ovary lobe. In the left ovary lobe, oocyte distribution was uniform in all three regions sampled regardless the female phase or sub -phase. In the right ovary lobe, oocyte frequencies were similarly uniform for the ED, D and AS phase and sub -phases; nevertheless, during SC phase, some heterogeneity was observed in tertiary vitellogenesis-Vtg3 oocytes, especially in samples from middle and posterior regions of this lobe. Females in AS sub -phase are normally used to estimate batch fecundity in fish such as L. maximus, which has shown to have asynchronous oocyte development and batch spawning. Given the homogeneous oocyte distribution pattern within and between the ovary lobes in females in AS sub -phase, no systematization is required of the gonad histological sampling protocol to estimate species batch fecundity. Nevertheless, due to the heterogeneous Vtg3 oocytes distribution in the right ovary lobe of females in the SC phase, it is best to systematically take sections of any region in the left ovary lobe when conducting a study encompassing all of a species' reproductive aspects.