CS 

 Machine learning  

Background and objective: According to the World Health Organization (WHO) epilepsy affects approximately 45-50 million people. Electroencephalogram (EEG) records the neurological activity in the brain and it is used to identify epilepsy. Visual inspection of EEG signals is a time-consuming process and it may lead to human error. Feature extraction and classification are two main steps that are required to build an automated epilepsy detection framework. Feature extraction reduces the dimensions of the input signal by retaining informative features and the classifier assigns a proper class label to the extracted feature vector. Our aim is to present effective feature extraction techniques for automated epileptic EEG signal classification. Methods: In this study, two effective feature extraction techniques (Local. Neighbor Descriptive Pattern [LNDP] and One-dimensional Local Gradient Pattern [1D-LGP]) have been introduced to classify epileptic EEG signals. The classification between epileptic seizure and non -seizure signals is performed using different machine learning classifiers. The benchmark epilepsy EEG dataset provided by the University of Bonn is used in this research. The classification performance is evaluated using 10 -fold cross validation. The classifiers used are the Nearest Neighbor (NN), Support Vector Machine (SVM), Decision Tree (DT) and Artificial Neural Network (ANN). The experiments have been repeated for 50 times. Results: LNDP and 1D-LGP feature extraction techniques with ANN classifier achieved the average classification accuracy of 99.82% and 99.80%, respectively, for the classification between normal and epileptic EEG signals. Eight different experimental cases were tested. The classification results were better than those of some existing methods. Conclusions: This study suggests that LNDP and 1D-LGP could be effective feature extraction techniques for the classification of epileptic EEG signals. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.