CS 

 Computer vision  

Background and objective: The preoperative planning of bone fractures using information from CT scans increases the probability of obtaining satisfactory results, since specialists are provided with additional information before surgery. The reduction of complex bone fractures requires solving a 3D puzzle in order to place each fragment into its correct position. Computer-assisted solutions may aid in this process by identifying the number of fragments and their location, by calculating the fracture zones or even by computing the correct position of each fragment. The main goal of this paper is the development of an automatic method to calculate contact zones between fragments and thus to ease the computation of bone fracture reduction. Methods: In this paper, an automatic method to calculate the contact zone between two bone fragments is presented. In a previous step, bone fragments are segmented and labelled from CT images and a point cloud is generated for each bone fragment. The calculated contact zones enable the automatic reduction of complex fractures. To that end, an automatic method to match bone fragments in complex fractures is also presented. Results: The proposed method has been successfully applied in the calculation of the contact zone of 4 different bones from the ankle area. The calculated fracture zones enabled the reduction of all the tested cases using the presented matching algorithm. The performed tests show that the reduction of these fractures using the proposed methods leaded to a small overlapping between fragments. Conclusions: The presented method makes the application of puzzle-solving strategies easier, since it does not obtain the entire fracture zone but the contact area between each pair of fragments. Therefore, it is not necessary to find correspondences between fracture zones and fragments may be aligned two by two. The developed algorithms have been successfully applied in different fracture cases in the ankle area. The small overlapping error obtained in the performed tests demonstrates the absence of visual overlapping in the figures. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.