CS 

 Image processing  

Background: Knee dislocations often require multiple concurrent ligament reconstructions, which involve creating several tunnels in the distal femur. Therefore, the risk of tunnel convergence is increased because of the limited bone volume within the distal aspect of the femur. Purpose: To assess the risk of tunnel convergence and determine the optimal reconstruction tunnel orientations for multiple ligament reconstructions in the femur. Study Design: Descriptive laboratory study. Methods: Three-dimensional knee models were developed from computed tomography scans of 21 patients. Medical image processing software was used to create tunnels for each of the primary ligamentous structures, replicating a surgical approach that would be used in multiple ligament reconstructions. Thereafter, the tunnel orientation was varied in surgically relevant directions to determine orientations that minimized the risk of tunnel convergence. The orientation of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) and posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) tunnels was held constant throughout the study, while the orientation of the fibular collateral ligament (FCL), popliteus tendon (PLT), superficial medial collateral ligament (sMCL), and posterior oblique ligament (POL) tunnels was varied to avoid convergence. Results: A high risk of tunnel convergence was observed between the FCL and ACL tunnels when the FCL tunnel was aimed at 0 degrees in the axial and coronal planes. Aiming the FCL tunnel 35 degrees anteriorly minimized convergence with the ACL tunnel. No tunnel convergence was observed for the PLT tunnel aimed 35 degrees anteriorly and parallel to the FCL tunnel. To avoid convergence between the sMCL and PCL tunnels, the sMCL tunnels should be aimed 40 degrees proximally in the coronal plane and 20 degrees to 40 degrees anteriorly. During concomitant POL reconstruction, the sMCL should be aimed 40 degrees proximally and anteriorly and the POL 20 degrees proximally and anteriorly. The PLT and POL tunnels aimed at 0 degrees in both the coronal and axial planes had an increased risk of violating the intercondylar notch. Conclusion: Femoral tunnel orientations during multiple ligament reconstructions need to be adjusted to avoid tunnel convergence. On the lateral side, aiming the FCL and PLT tunnels 35 degrees anteriorly eliminated convergence with the ACL tunnel. On the medial side, tunnel convergence was avoided by orienting the sMCL tunnel 40 degrees proximally and anteriorly and the POL tunnel 20 degrees proximally and anteriorly. The POL and PLT tunnels aimed at 0 degrees in the axial plane had an increased risk of violating the intercondylar notch. Clinical Relevance: The risk of tunnel convergence with the ACL and PCL femoral tunnels can be reduced by adjusting the orientation of the FCL and PLT tunnels and the sMCL and POL tunnels, respectively.